Setup
1. how to create react setup
cmd: npx install create-react-app

2. how to create react project
cmd: npx create-react-app projectname
note: project name should be in small letters

3. run/execute react project
cmd: npm start


Component:
It is a unit of logic, it contains js, css, and html
It will always return html elements
Every components must be exportes and imported before call/access

2 Types:
Functional components
stateless component
It will follow react hooks

class component:
stateful components
It will follow life cycle


function component vs class component in react

feature                             function component                         class component
syntax                              just a function                            uses a class
code simplicity                     short and clean                            more code and setup
usage                                mostly used now                           used in older code





Bootstrap setup

1. npm install bootstrap@4.6.0

2. to check installation status
npm list bootstrap

3. import css file
import "bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css";

4. import js files
import "bootstrap/dist/js/bootstrap.bundle.min.js";

5. uninstall
npm uninstall boostrap


React routing

To implement single page application
To navigate one page to another page using routing

React routing component
1. BrowserRouter -> to handel browser navigation action
2. Routes -> Routes will have route configuration
3. Route -> Route path to be rendered component based on ink url text
4. Link -> to link to the path


To setup react routing need to install routing packages
npm install react-router-dom



React integration with API:
API -> Application programming interface (it is communication channel between client & server)

In React we can't directly connect to db so we use API to coonect to the database



Creating a server on react
1. npm install json-server
it will create one dummy API with the temporary DB

2. npx json-server --watch db.json(another terminal)
it will start the server with the db.json file

3. npm start

Note. db.json file should be in the root directoty.


React hook
1. useState ->
.It lets you create and store a value inside your component that can change over time.
.Think of it like a box where you keep something, and you can update what's inside whenever you want.

2.useEffect ->
.It lets you run some code after the component renders (or when certain things change)
.It's like saying: "Hey React, when you show this component on the screen, run this code."






